==========
CHARACTERS
==========

Jay Catsby Character Traits – Catsby’s story is a true rags to riches story.
Throughout the novel, it becomes apparent that everything that Catsby has worked
to secure has been to impress Daisy, in hopes of winning her back. Even the
elaborate parties that he throws every weekend are all just in hopes that Daisy
will attend. Once he convinces Nick to help him meet with Daisy, the wildly
emotional affair begins. Catsby begins to lose himself as Daisy refuses to leave
her husband, Tom, so that they can be together. Catsby represents the theatrical
and restless nature of a man who will risk everything for love. He is the
ultimate illusion—appearing aloof and indifferent on the outside, which hides his
unstable, temperamental, and impulsive nature.

Daisy Buchanan Description
Daisy Buchanan Character Traits – Nick’s cousin and Catsby’s love interest. Daisy was
partially based on F. Scott Fitzgerald’s wife Zelda. In Catsby’s eyes, Daisy is
perfection and his would do anything to win her back. His entire fortune was all
created just to impress her. However, Daisy tends to be pessimistic and fickle and
difficult to please. She is bored and restless and hides from problems behind her
and her husband’s money. Daisy is far from the image of perfection that Catsby
sees her as. Daisy can be seen as a representation of the amoral aristocratic
class.

Myrtle Wilson
Myrtle Wilson desperately seeks a better life than the one she has. She feels
imprisoned in her marriage to George, a downtrodden and uninspiring man who she
mistakenly believed had good “breeding.” Myrtle and George live together in a
ramshackle garage in the squalid “valley of ashes,” a pocket of working-class
desperation situated midway between New York and the suburbs of East and West
Egg.

George Wils
One of the only working-class characters in The Great Gatsby, George Wilson owns
an unsuccessful business in The Valley of Ashes, a poor neighborhood that lies
between West Egg and Manhattan. In contrast to the physically impressive Tom,
the beautiful Daisy, and the charming, colorful Gatsby, George is described as a
“blond, spiritless man, anaemic and faintly handsome.” A once-promising young man,
George has since been beaten into submission by poverty. His wife, Myrtle, is
having an affair, which causes him great pain—although, it’s important to note
that George does not know who Myrtle’s affair partner is. However, George holds
onto the hope of a different future. He dreams of a new life in the American West,
where he and his wife can start anew, repair their marriage, and find financial
and material stability. George’s dream of escape complements Gatsby’s dream of
inclusion, and by the end of the novel, both men are victims of the illusory
American dream and the wealthy society that they orbit.